Bullet Points for Conclusion (not a comprehensive list / does not touch on methodology etc.)

Unfortunately not able to refute or support our hypothesis based on our visualisations and data analysis. 

we realised various limitations along our analyses, e.g. fatal encounters not only indicator of police brutality and could have looked at longer periods of time, cause and effect might show temporally staggered(?). Also funding does not equal funding ie having data on specific expenditures might be useful. But these limitations could be inspiration for future research?

What we did come across and might be worth looking into further is the relationship between density of Black population compared to encounters. Maybe there are structural issues like marginalisation? 

Could conclude that the non-conclusiveness of our results just highlights once more the fact that raicsm is a complex issue and probably many factors interrelate. Nonetheless this shouldnt stop research but rather encourage large scale studies on the topic. While we cannot support the claims by BLM, neither can we refute them. 


Final 
The aim of this website was to explore police brutality incidents towards the African-American community in the US in relation to each state's police and social funding budget. We explored the relationship between these variables using a mixture of descriptive and statistical visualisations, on both a national and state level. Unfortunately, we were unable to draw any conclusive results to our hypothesis based on our visualisations and analysis due to a range of limitations and inconclusive trends, patterns, and results.

​

Following comparison of our choropleth maps and regression results, we concluded that analysing the US as a whole presented too many limitations, and chose 6 states to investigate as case studies to try and gain a more comprehensive and informed understanding of any trends. We chose the 3 states with the highest funding levels and the 3 with the lowest. Limitations guiding this decision included policy differences and the sociopolitical legacy of states. Despite this, even within our case studies, we struggled to gain a more conclusive picture due to limitations including a lack of information about the allocation of the discussed funding in each state and the nature of our investigation into ‘fatal encounters’. Additional funding and time would allow us to increase the scope of our project, and could allow for the collection or acquisition of information that could reduce these limitations. Data on police brutality that was not fatal would be invaluable, especially if it was able to be sorted based on the level of the severity of the interaction, and information on the allocation of funding in each state would have allowed us to consider whether the funding had been spent on hiring more police and ‘strengthening’ the force or on educating the police and increasing their training. Investigations over a larger time period would also be useful in their ability to draw more conclusive results.

​

A key finding which contradicted most of our initial thoughts regards the relationship between the density of the black/African American population compared with fatal police encounters. We found a negative relationship between the two in a number of states which could be expanded into an investigation of structural issues such as marginalisation that would undoubtably be insightful to policy makers and organisations.

​

To conclude, this paired with our mostly non-conclusive results highlights the complex nature of racism and the importance of thorough interdisciplinary approaches to investigations related to the topic and its implications in society. Our findings and limitations should encourage more large scale studies on the topic due to the clear holes in our data and the research available that would be more manageable and fillable if a governmental or non-governmental organisation were leading the research. Despite this, with such a complex issue there will always be limitations due to the multifaceted nature of influences on the topic. We can neither support not refute the claims by Black Lives Matter supporters, but it is clear that further investigation of the topics, outside of our purview, would be invaluable.
